>> Rodriguez: One thing that people don't
necessarily know that you can do in email,
or don't use it as they probably should,
cuz it's a really useful technique,
is using background images in email.
So background images are just
images that are applied
to the background of an element,
pretty simple.
This is usually done using CSS,
the background property for
shorthand, background image,
background position, background size.
There's a whole host of
different CSS properties.
But for email, it takes a little
bit more work, nothing too fancy.
But it's super helpful because it allows
you to account for better designs.
When you're fed a Photoshop mockup that
has a bunch of text on images, and
you're prompted to create an all
image-based email, but you don't want to,
this is where something like a background
image can really come into play.
So you can still use live
HTML text in your email, but
then apply background images for
that graphic element underneath it.
So it'll allow you to get around, still
provide that accessible experience for
people, but have a really well-designed,
cool style for your email campaign.
A couple of things keep in mind is
that this uses not only inline CSS.
But to be a little bit more
reliable across email clients,
you wanna use the HTML attribute as well,
which we'll look at how that's applied.
And then this is really
useful on table cells.
So it works most reliably
when that background image is
applied to a table cell.
That's kind of a container element of
whatever that content happens to be.
So let's look at how
this is actually applied.
I don't think I have an assignment for
you guys,
because it's similar to just using images.
But we'll look at an example
of how this might be applied.
>> Rodriguez: I'm gonna open up
this background image example.
>> Rodriguez: And if we open this up, you
can see that we have pretty basic email,
what we've been building up to this point.
It has that logo, it has a heading,
it has a hero image, has a bunch of copy,
and then a button down below.
You can see we applied these background
images to just show off how that works for
an HTML email.
So if we go into the code here,
you can see that we're providing a little
bit more structure for our email.
We'll look at how this works
a little bit later on too.
We're using tables to structure our
email content and fry that layout,
instead of just relying on that
max width on that container div.
So a little bit different,
we don't have that div for
each of these container elements.
We're using the container table
to provide that default styling,
like the background color,
the color of the text, the font family,
and then we have our usual elements.
But then on something like the headline,
where we have that,
>> Rodriguez: Where we
have this dark blue kinda transparent
background image, and then the hero image,
where we have another one that's
a little bit lighter colored.
We're doing a couple things,
we're using the background attribute,
and we just provide the source of that
background image for that attribute.
So this helps with older email clients
that don't necessarily understand or
render properly the background shorthand,
or any of those CSS background properties.
It'll make sure that that image applies
in those different email clients.
Then we also use this bgcolour,
the background color attribute,
to provide a fallback color.
So this is really important when we
are in clients that disable those images
by default.
So they'll disable the background images,
as well as any other regular
images in your email.
So if you're using something
like white text on top of that
background image, and that image
doesn't load and you don't account for
the background color, then that's
gonna be completely inaccessible.
Nobody's gonna be able to read that
text because it's white text on a white
background.
So it's good to provide this
fallback background color for
when your images aren't loaded.
For more modern clients, we can use this
background CSS rule, this shorthand.
We can provide the background fallback
color here, the URL for our image.
You can also set things like how it
repeats across the x and y axis.
If it's a larger image, like a graphic,
like a photograph or something like that,
then you can set like the background
size like to cover or contains, some of
that more modern stuff, to make sure that
it scales properly across those elements.
But beyond that,
you don't have to worry about too much.
Combining these two elements, these two
approaches together using HTML attributes.
And the inline CSS will make
sure that it works across
the widest range of
different email clients.
It's still not gonna work everywhere, but
that's why we have these fallback colors,
to make sure that any text that's
on top of it is still readable.
So you can do some cool things
with background images too.
You could add an animated GIF in there
if you want some sort of motion for
that background image.
LMIS, a couple years ago for a conference,
actually used background videos
to do a little bit longer,
lighter weight version of an animated GIF.
It didn't work everywhere, it fell back
to just a static background image.
And then clients that didn't respect that,
it fell back to a background color.
There's definitely some cool techniques
that you can use background images for.
And it's one way to create more accessible
emails while still providing that extra
styling that you get with graphics and
illustrations and photographs, and
stuff like that.
Again, this example,
it's standalone Background-image.html, so
it's worth checking out there.